who don't know me my name is Danelle
Dixon and I'm the CEO and executive
director of the Stellar development
foundation also known as SDF the Stellar
development foundation is a non-profit
that supports the growth of and the
ecosystem of the ecosystem and of the
Stellar Network which is an open source
public blockchain network I'm really
excited to be here today and introduce
you to Ginger Baker she's sdf's newest
board member today we're going to learn
a little bit about Ginger and her career
her journey what Drew her to sdf's work
and the direction that she sees out
there for the industry and where our
industry is headed hello Ginger hi danil
thanks so much for having me it's fun to
be here so it's so great to have you and
to kick us off I was hoping that you
could tell us just a little bit about
yourself sure so I'm Ginger Baker
I live in Northern California
I grew up in various parts of the US
but I do consider myself a global
citizen hopefully or working towards
that through some of the work I've done
I have two kids and a wonderful
husband and a brand new dog so those are
probably the the great Facts of Life
I'm also about that brand new dog doing
I'm sorry sorry what was that I said
how's the brand new dog doing he's great
he's great he's still very much a puppy
so less than a year
but he's fun he's fuzzy he's like the
fuzziest dog he's almost like a
he's almost like a stuffed animal with
all the fur so we're enjoying him very
much
yeah so that's a little bit about me
also I'm my son's basketball coach which
is a very big deal for me because I'm a
huge basketball fan and I've played my
entire life
so I'm the coach of the middle school
basketball team right now which is
definitely a favorite thing for me each
year
and how about your career yeah so my
career has really centered around you
know that intersection between
technology and how it can be applied
applied to economic empowerment so if
you think about that intersection the
topic of financial inclusion has really
been the thread that's tied almost all
of my experiences and roles together so
I've worked on financial included
related products or ecosystems or
relationships or whatever it happens to
be at both big Tech so I worked at
Facebook traditional financial services
company are more traditional companies
like visa and then startups like Ripple
and square and I'm now the head of
financial access at plaid
and that's I've been really excited
about my career like taking the approach
of looking at the problem space or the
opportunity space from a lot of
different frames has been fun I also
tend to you know sort of dive in deep
into a particular Market or segment for
a particular period of time and then I
also sort of pull back to look at stuff
more from a macro standpoint so I spent
a lot of time with with visa and Rwanda
when I was working on financial services
in messenger in the Philippines
and so yeah my role at Platt is to
build the tech and the relationships
that help people to have access to
completely portable financial data so
that you can take the financial data
that sits in your bank account or your
crypto account or wherever it resides
and move that data to another
application or service to Avail
yourselves of the value of that service
well we found Ginger because we thought
her background was just fascinating and
we thought it really connected so well
with the focus areas for SDF but
honestly Ginger and I really bonded over
this whole Middle School basketball
thing
and we know we know how challenging that
is so I just love the fact that you're
the coach and I know how hard that is on
so many levels first of all I want to
have fun playing on your team but also
just to be the coach of Middle School
boys
to be clear I think if our kids actually
played against each other we might not
be in this relationship for a career
standpoint because I don't think we
could it was fierce it would be too
competitive I think
I'd love to dig a bit deeper into
your career Journey so with stepping
into leadership roles like the one you
have now and the ones you've had before
sort of always a part of your plan
interesting question part of my plan
no I think
you know I definitely would say being a
leader has generally been something I've
stumbled into I I've been a leader for a
good chunk of my life I mean even as a
as a child you know in high school for
example I was the president of our class
but I wasn't wasn't because I
intentionally wanted to be that I just
there was something I was interested in
or a topic I wanted to pursue or
something I was curious about and I
wanted to go and do it
and so that's you know I guess it
wasn't so much of a strategy around it
as as as good luck perhaps like being
in the right place at the right time and
just caring enough to want to like lead
a group of people through something and
I think from a career standpoint it's
it's been fairly it's been fairly
similar
where again like this this
intersection of technology and economic
development I just I am really
fascinated with it and I always have
been and so I have a lot of passion for
that topic and so I will apply that
passion and try to bring people along
with me
to go explore something new or take a
look at something and again I think
being in the right place at the right
time has often been a part of
getting into leadership roles
so like at the Forefront of maybe a
new technological advancement like the
proliferation of mobile devices or
you know some some kind of social
change like the adoption of messaging
services being such a central part in
people's lives through WhatsApp and
messenger so it's it's been a lot of
luck but also because I I really care
luck but also because I really care
about the topics I work on and I try to
get people to come along with me
as we explore those opportunities
I can't imagine that it's always been
easy for you to step up into these
different roles do you have a particular
memory of something that was challenging
that made you even be better or that
caused you to think about things
differently
yeah I think
communication has been a big piece of my
Evolution
and I re I remembered times when I felt
like I couldn't quite get my point
across and
you know maybe sitting in a room with
with other leaders
you know and I think the intersection
of sometimes the male female Dynamic has
always been a little bit interesting in
my career but there's certainly been
moments when I felt like I couldn't
quite get my voice to be strong enough
and
oftentimes my team will attest to
this I I love to draw on the whiteboards
this I love to draw on the whiteboards
and I think that this was actually a
tool I developed because I couldn't get
people to listen in a way that I thought
I was being well understood or given
proper a proper forum and so I would say
something I didn't feel like people were
listening the people were talking over
me or my point of view wasn't coming
across I would just stand up and draw it
out that doesn't always work because I'm
not great at drawing nor do I have good
handwriting but sometimes just like
documenting the idea would sometimes
help to get that through so
communication tactics and they have to
be different in every situation
you know has been something I've
continued to try to pay attention to and
evolve based on the situation and the
group of people I'm with
you just mentioned that maybe it was the
male female dynamic or just the fact
that you were a woman in a leadership
role tell us more about the challenges
or the misnomers or maybe the benefits
about being a woman in a leadership
position
yeah I mean
I think there's
this balance you need to strike as a
female leader between
being assertive and being likable and
that's not always easy and I think early
in my career
I really over indexed on on the
likability like if people like me this
will this will go well and I was a
little nervous about being too assertive
I think also because the expectation is
that I wouldn't have been a service
and so it felt like sort of
overriding expectations that folks may
have had
but I had this great mentor
still do Sarah fryer she was the
CFO at Square when I worked there and
she's now the CEO of Nextdoor and I
remember she told me one time I just
looked really directly like it doesn't
matter if they like you like you just
need to make sure they respect you right
and so what is the combination of how
you need to exist that drives respect
over likability and I think for women
unfortunately or maybe fortunately that
likability component is an important
part of of what we do and how we exist
in the world and we are we even carry
our own biases around that too
but having somebody say that so
directly to me which is like you're over
indexing on likability like make sure
you're investing on respect was was a
really good like waking up moment for me
oh I think that is such a great piece of
advice one that I didn't get early
enough in my career and I definitely
over rotated on the likability I gotta
be honest sometimes I still do sometimes
I see out there the social media
responses to things we do or we say and
I'm like really
so I definitely feel like it's
something it's a journey that we all can
probably not just women that we all
can benefit from that kind of advice
sometimes I think that there's more
that we can learn from the failures that
we've had than our successes I always
tell my boys this that every failure is
a chance for you to do something
differently next time so anything that
you'd share along those lines and what
you've learned in those processes yeah I
mean I mean I've made a lot of you know
mistakes or you know failed quite
a bit I failed early in in hiring
like I was not a great I did not hire
great early in my career and I think
you know getting the right people on
your team is super important and it's
not something that you're going to wake
up in the morning one day and be like
I'm going to become a manager and I'm
going to be really great at hiring like
you know you really have to work at it
you have to understand like what makes
great team members and and how do you
hire correctly but but not all failures
I mean if you're if you're watching the
evolution of something that you're
working on that's sort of starting to go
off track like you can turn that failure
into into opportunities
certainly when I was working for Visa
in Rwanda we went there with a
singular intention was still was to
launch a Visa's First branchless Banking
product so this was a product that
existed only on mobile devices and did
not have a plastic card Associated and
this was back in you know 2011 when I
moved to Kigali so this was like a very
interesting idea at the time and mobile
money was starting to take off in East
Africa but it started with a very
singular product proposition we're going
to go and do this product
but as we begin to hit different
challenges and roadblocks
in that the evolution of that product
we began to understand stand actually it
was because the environment there and
the government that we were working with
in Rwanda was was needing more from us
than just that singular product and
actually what they wanted was they
wanted a more fully a more full and
robust public private partnership
between visa and the government of
Rwanda and so the fact that we you know
noticed that things were not going as we
had hoped but instead of bailing or just
bowing out completely we really tried to
dig in deep to understand what could we
do differently that would open up doors
and then we modified what we were doing
we still launched that product which is
called mvisa which was which was great
but probably the best thing that came
out of that experience was just how do
you constructively engage with a
national government as a Fortune 500
company especially in a continent where
there wasn't as much experience there
you know from the work that Visa had
done in the past so anyway I think
there's there's ways that you could take
these failures and yes learn from them
in the past but you can also take the
failure in real time and like pivot it
to turn it into a more interesting
opportunity than you were even expecting
yeah I love that I think that you know
one of the things that I always really
like to have are these goals that we set
out either if they're product goals or
their goals for us internally and the
thing about a goal is that you might
actually pivot along the way and you
might not achieve the exact thing that
you set out to and you need to be
willing to make those pivots and to
learn for what's going on in the context
that you're in so I do think that it's
really hard you can't identify failures
in your life I certainly have plenty but
I also have a lot of those opportunities
where we were able to Pivot to make it
better and more right and more
constant with the situation so I think
it's really awesome to be able to take
in that context and to listen and I
think that sometimes we forget to do
that along the way on a similar note
what is one piece of advice that you
give someone watching this no matter
what stage of their career that they're
in
well I mean just to build on what we
were just talking about like I would I
would ask a lot of questions like ask
questions constantly constantly test
your assumptions constantly test your
hypotheses like things change like you
really need to you just keep asking the
next level question
and I think that having that that's
actually what I hire for you just talk
about something we were talking about
earlier that that is actually what I
learned for people that I work with like
I want them to be really hungry and
super curious and so I guess you could
tie that into advice for folks like
be great like no matter what you're
doing just just be great and I think
that that that phrase of like Blossom
while you're planted is really
important especially early in your
career I think the opportunities that I
have gained or like been been I've
been available to me and even still
today that are available to me
actually come a lot from the people
that I interacted with in my early 20s
and I think I mean that was a long time
ago don't need to say how many years but
you know I showed up hungry and
motivated and I and I really cared like
I really cared about our outcomes even
if the role I was in was not actually
what I I thought I wanted to do
what I thought I wanted to do
or the thing that I was working on
actually didn't actually have that much
personal interest in it
you know just how you show up can can
really matter
I think the other thing is
like we should we should have fun you
know life is life is too short and
you should have a good time with what
you do and I think that's really
important it helps with perspective it
helps with
motivation it helps with Team
camaraderie when I was at Facebook we
we had a great team called mobile
financial services at Facebook one of
the best teams I've worked with and we
did some really amazing stuff you know
we increased Financial inclusion in the
Philippines we created this great
product that existed in Emerging Markets
where people could link accounts or
create Financial accounts and use it to
send money or pay bills or buy airtime
like there's a lot of good stuff that
came from that product but I think the
best thing that we did was we had fun as
a team like we had a cowbell that we
used on Friday afternoon meetings we had
a cat mascot like I don't know we just
we had a great time and when people have
fun like they want to show up they want
to get engaged they are you know they're
just naturally more productive so those
would be a couple of thoughts I think
that is such great advice I think the
have fun one it gets lost one of the
things that I decided early on
especially once I had kids is that since
I didn't have the choice about whether
whether to work or not work I needed to
work I was a single mom at the time and
I had three boys and my focus was that I
needed to really be in a role and to be
doing work that inspired me that
constantly challenged me and that I
liked doing with people that I liked
being with and it was those choices that
really caused like all of my decisions
about where I was going to work it
wasn't about the money it wasn't about
the big name it was about am I gonna
like these people are they going to
inspire me to even be better than I am
and I think that that have fun part is
something that we can't lose and I I get
something that we can't lose and I get
a little fearful sometimes in today's
world that we're not having enough fun
because not all of us are together right
and and I and you know because of all
the the things that have happened over
the last many years but I think that
that is such a crucial thing so have you
been able to do that at all of the roles
that you've been in so probably not all
of them
but I do try like now in fact I'm
looking to see if I have one of the
props around we have like a hat thing at
plaid oh I do have one
well here's my take credit hat like
we're constantly wearing hats and I
don't know how we came up with that it
was just this random moment that
happened where all of a sudden it made
sense for us to put on weird hats in a
meeting and we've we've been doing it
for two and a half years and
that's it's easy to for us to express
ourselves because you can see it
visually from a virtual distance and you
don't have to be together to have that
you know joke or funny thing that you do
like it's something that we could we
could do remotely but again like we
didn't plan that it's just you know
something that you stumble upon when
when you really want to connect with
your team and when you're having when
you're having fun like you have to be in
an environment where you feel
comfortable randomly putting a hat on
your head and making a joke about it and
feeling like people are going to accept
you you know you're being authentic
you know that it's this just a
natural part of of existing as a team
together is that ability to play
just I wanted to point out that if
you have questions go ahead and put them
in the comments and I'm going to try to
look at those as I'm asking questions as
I go through here so I know you
started your career focused on financial
services in emerging markets and you
told us a little bit about that in
particular you're a big advocate for the
impact that expanding Financial access
for women in these markets can have why
is that why has that been a focal point
for you yeah
you know obviously there's or maybe not
obviously there's research that shows
you know that when women are in
control of limited budgets that they
will traditionally or typically invest
more in education and health and
things that are going to help their
children to prosper and I think you can
tie that to not just building strong
children and strong families but then
building strong communities and so I
think that there's like a you know
research proven tie between those two
things but most
experiences that I had had in trying to
you know build some of these tools and
and products and markets around the
world that just really sat with me I
mean there was we were doing research in
Bangladesh this is when I was with
Facebook and we were trying to
understand
motivations that someone might have
to use a digital financial management
tool and in order to understand what you
would potentially build to Aid someone
in in those desires you really have to
understand why they do it or or what it
is about their lives that that could be
improved and there was this one woman
talking about you know
her ability to manage the money for the
family based on the very wide swings of
income that came from her husband's job
was like that was her identity like her
ability to be creative about how that
money was managed to be able to make it
last in you know Seasons where income
was low and be able to save it and and
hold it back when it was high and to do
that like with a very intricate web of
very informal systems everything from
storing it in a container in the kitchen
to giving some to her sister to hiding
it in places to stitching it into
clothes to buying jewelry because that
would last longer and hold value I mean
it was just amazing what this woman was
holding in her head in terms of all of
the things that she was doing to to have
the best you know Financial outcome for
her family and so not just that
experience but Global money agents that
we worked with in the Philippines
you know more than 50 percent of the
agent Network we were working with were
women-owned businesses and they were
just all business like they were I was
so impressed with them right
and so like finding ways that you can
Empower women in these roles not only as
the leader of a family but also a leader
of a small business
and having more opportunities
you know to be part of these networks
that we're investing in on-ramps and
off-ramps for fiat currency to digital
currency like you know these are the
places that are on the Forefront of
technical Innovation and having women be
a part of that I think will not only be
good for for them for the products that
we're all building but also for the
communities in which they live
it's one of those things that the
research that has been done I think by
the World Bank it's talked about the
fact that when women are engaged in
financial infrastructure and are able to
use those tools the GDP of the
government goes up and or the country
goes up and it's one of the things that
the the one of the reasons why I am so
deeply focused on it when I was at
Mozilla we were building a Firefox
operating system for a mobile device it
was low it was for low-end mobile
devices that could be used anywhere and
it was built on the HTML5 so we were
like very interested in the open part
but one of the things I loved in
partnership with these different
carriers was the fact that we could look
at local problems and one of the
problems with the women were trying to
make money and one of the things they
could do is they could sell one of the
extra meals that they had that night and
how that would just improve things for
them and so giving them the tools to do
that just changes the whole dynamic for
the family so I I too like I'm just so
the family so I too like I'm just so
enamored with that and so really truly
want to help there and I'm so grateful
for the work that you've done and
certainly one of the things that we've
talked about is those on and off ramps
and the work that you've done
historically in Africa and all over
really helps us to be able to have the
sounding board from you to talk through
these really important issues and to
hopefully get them right solving these
local problems yeah and if you think
about I made a flip comment about you
know moving cash to digital you know
digital Fiat to crypto like there's a
whole host of change that have to be
solved chains that have to be solved for
and you asked a question earlier
about failures I don't know if I want to
put it in the failure account but I
think a very large learning from some of
my experiences is that the how do you
properly incentivize motivate
those retail outlets or those end
points many of which are humans
running small retail shops some which
are also digital but like how do you get
that the on-ramps and off-ramps solved
if you really want to move out of
cash-based economies and into a digital
world like that's to me that was the
hardest part it's been the hardest part
in in three different you know three
different companies and three different
products I've worked on like that that
piece is the hardest and
and yeah a lot of those endpoints are
women
and so I just think it's a really
interesting problem that we're going to
have to continue to keep solving
so there's a question here that may be a
little bit too specific but I'm going to
go ahead and grab it I have a sarban if
you remember is our smart Contracting
platform that we're building
and I'm going to ask you about where
do you the one of the questions is what
is the biggest underserved area in
fintech that you feel Stellar and
sorbonne or just Stellar could really
help fill over the next 36 to 48 months
yeah I think it's a great question and
I'm gonna it's not a cop-out answer but
I I really really mean this which is
what is the
place the segment the people that you're
trying to serve and what is it that they
need in order to do the thing that they
want to do take the action they want to
take have a better life have a better
livelihood you really have to hone that
down to something very specific and
small to get started so so thinking
about like all these broad industry
problems I've always struggled being
successful if I take too broad of a
mindset or too broad of a view on things
and where I felt more confidence that we
were building the right things or
investing in the right kind of
Technology was when you could get very
pointed about
you know this is the ultimately the
problem we want to solve in a global
basis but we're going to start very
locally and so who's the who's the
segment that you're trying to solve is
it artists is it low-income women is
it online businesses and e-commerce
like what's what's the thing that you're
trying to solve who are your customers
and then work your way into the
technology that needs to be built from
that real world problem and I mean
making money work better for people and
making it more fluid is what Stellar is
all about and I think that that can
apply to so many different situations I
love the model that Danelle and team
have of like identifying and finding you
know businesses and entrepreneurs who
are who are building in this ecosystem
based on real world problems and I
suspect that what gets built and what
those problems are is going to be fairly
diverse right and so the trick is then
to pull up and find the similarities and
the you know the patterns across
those things
well they're here to that there's so
much noise out there though and there
there's a focus on the hype of crypto
and blockchain like the trading use
cases the speculation so much of our
attention over the last month has been
on the awful failure of FTX and how
that harms so many people so we often
try to instead get to people to see the
value it brings to the financial system
here do you want to see our industry
Focus somewhere else or there or how do
you think about it
meaning like on people versus not yeah
or you know we're trying to focus on
these real world problems as you just
mentioned and we're really trying to
focus there but is there something else
another way to attack that
okay so I think you have to base it
there but you can also think about the
systems that are required
to eliminate the pain points that again
once you pull up and you look across
those patterns like where are the pain
points exist that are similar across
different types of services I'm going to
cheat and just use plaid for a second
which is like you know
quickly realize that people individuals
again wanted to tie their financial data
or move their financial data from one
particular place to another but they
didn't learn that by talking to people
like they had customers and businesses
that were trying to build build great
products and services for people and
they realized many of them had the same
need and so it doesn't have to be the
person that you start with it can be an
ecosystem pain point it can be a group
of businesses it can be a group of
customers who are telling you over and
over again that they have something that
they want to solve
this happened again cheating a little
bit here with plaid which was like you
know we were hearing that people wanted
to be able to see their crypto Holdings
alongside Holdings that they have in
other types of investment accounts
savings accounts checking accounts and
and even loans and so build so that
was a pretty specific pattern we were
seeing across a number of different
customers who were focused on Building
Wealth Management Solutions and so what
did we do well let's go build
Integrations into digital asset
exchanges and other crypto companies so
people can see the balances of those
accounts but we didn't you know there
wasn't a lot of talking to the
individual person about that it was
about seeing the system and the pattern
of the request across a number of
different customers that were valuable
to us yeah using data to sort of help to
drive the solution as well another
question from the audience is what is
your perspective of the most attractive
use cases that can be achieved working
with MoneyGram in our in the MoneyGram
integration yeah so I think that's an
interesting one I mean I think there's
like two areas with
an organization like MoneyGram that
are probably interested in looking at
one plays right into what we were
talking about earlier about the agent
Network I mean they they have such a
strong visible and reputable
you know money movement Network that
local communities understand and see and
I think you can not dismiss the value of
that that is a very hard thing for a
company to build moneygram's been doing
this for you know decades right
but if you if you take new tech
companies and you think about their
relevance to
physical Cash locations in local
communities globally that is a very hard
thread
you know to tie because one that company
may not be known certainly their
offerings and financial services aren't
going to be known so the amount of
marketing dollars and communication that
have to go into building Brands and
local communities is really challenging
and MoneyGram has that in Spades and so
I think like the combination between
Stellar's technology and the ability to
more easily move funds around the world
in addition to MoneyGrams brand and
prominence in local communities is like
is a fantastic offering
yeah Alex the the chairman and CEO of
MoneyGram says they've been getting
disrupted for like the last 50 years or
something like that it's this joke that
he makes across the board and the great
thing is is that this isn't about
disruption as much as much as it about
really enhancing that traditional
Financial infrastructure and leveraging
the value they've built over all of
these years and really bringing that to
blockchain so that you don't need a
credit card and you don't need a bank
account which a lot of people don't have
outside the U.S and outside of Western
countries so it's definitely something
for it's the one of the things I'm
most proud that we were able to bring
together all right I have one last
question for you because I think we only
have time for it so
if you had a billboard in Times
Square
and it could say anything
what would it say
s
while they're Ginger come on okay all
right let me think
I mean something probably super
cheesy like you know be authentic or
something
so when
when I was a kid this is gonna date me
okay so maybe we delete this part of the
segment when I was a kid there was
this America's top America top 40.
there's a guy named Casey Kasem who used
to say you know you feed on the ground
and keep reaching for the Stars like I
think it would be something like that
America top 40. I think that's how it
went yeah and that just really sticks in
the brain and I think that it's also a
great it's a great statement right you
have to have your feet you have to be
realistic you have to be grounded you
have to be grounded in what's going on
grounded in your capabilities of your
team grounded in the capabilities of the
technology you have grounded in the
realities of the world and the ecosystem
in which you're working in the partner
Dynamics but you can't stop you know you
can't stop trying to go to the moon so
anyway something I would I would just
100 borrow Casey cases
well I loved that that actually came on
Sundays and it was one of the things
that I was you guys don't understand out
there who are not having had to
experience this part we didn't know it
was the top 40 unless we sat there on
Sundays and listened to Casey Kason and
you would tape it did you ever do that
thing where you would wait for the yeah
then you would to press the two buttons
on your tape player so you could record
it and listen to it later it was a big
deal it was a really big deal none of
you guys understand how cool it was way
back when yeah and now we're talking
about Stellar right yeah things have
changed things have definitely changed I
am so grateful for the time thank you so
much for joining us I'm so grateful that
you are a part of our Stellar family
and I look forward to all the more we
can do together thank you thanks so much
for having me Danelle great to see you
thank you